Techstars San Francisco: Have to be an expert on this. I think it's probably obvious for the ones who had built theirs. Maybe you are experts in finance. But you don't really have to be expert. You just need a basic understanding of financial statements. It's not even finances.
Techstars San Francisco: And something that I also need to mention here is that you doing this doesn't necessarily mean you don't need an accountant.
Techstars San Francisco: That is very different. Job bookkeeping and then making strategies of your books are 2 separate things. Your account's job is to make sure you don't violate any regulation
Techstars San Francisco: and follow Gaap rules, or if you're a national Company, Rfs. I have no idea, but that's not your job. Have an accountant. It's a pretty tedious thing to do, so don't waste your time on it, but you have to understand your finances at the end of the day. So this is not to forego any confidence in the company.
Techstars San Francisco: and if you're not an expert watch like what 3 guys in here yesterday. I have no idea it's kind of.
Techstars San Francisco: But if you have not rewatched it, how many times as we did, and the last one is also accounting hasn't changed much in the last few years. It's very learnable
Techstars San Francisco: if you don't have a textbook
Techstars San Francisco: chat. Yet there is a way to learn it. It has not changed that much, really.
Techstars San Francisco: And second one is overthinking.
Techstars San Francisco: This is very common, because all, especially as timers, I understand. It's like, Oh, my God! In like 3 months, we're gonna do something else right now. We're going to see. But we're gonna be in marketplace in 6 months.
Techstars San Francisco: Sure, it's great, fantastic idea, but you
Techstars San Francisco: are most likely in a position where we don't have to build it out right now this build, what has happened.
Techstars San Francisco: and then you build complexity into it as you grow, because, especially if things are not gonna happen in the next year.
Techstars San Francisco: you might not get to next year
Techstars San Francisco: with the same model, the same company. I'm not saying they're not gonna make it, but it could change in that timeframe, and
Techstars San Francisco: oh, perfect!
Techstars San Francisco: And the last one is naive, it might be offering with suffering ostrich effect. Have you heard of this thing? Ostrich effect?
Techstars San Francisco: Some people are not exit.
Techstars San Francisco: What? Yes, putting your head in the sand. This is like a very common thing. Same reasons why people don't like to step on scale to look their way, because it makes them feel bad
Techstars San Francisco: rationally, you should always want to have a complete data of your health information so you can take actions. And people don't do that. They get scared going to the doctor. Same thing here in finances. And it isn't. It's not only for startup financing. This is also personal finances as well. If I spend a thousand dollars in shoes. I know I spent it, but I don't like to see it on my bank account. It's like it's a weird psychological thing. You might be experiencing it with your startup, especially because it's not like life or death. That's why I mentioned cash flow, because cash is at the end of the day
Techstars San Francisco: they came, and so I understand that
Techstars San Francisco: it's not. That's not for that.
Techstars San Francisco: You can ask Pod what to do to have very well research phenomena. So just kind of acknowledges that it's there, I understand. Okay.
Techstars San Francisco: that looks good.
Techstars San Francisco: By the way, I'm not.
Techstars San Francisco: I'm gonna like yell at him for like
Techstars San Francisco: 60 min. So the more interactive, the better, too. Right?
Techstars San Francisco: Okay. So when you're we're not gonna be able to do this right now, but when you're ready to make your finish model.
Techstars San Francisco: I suggest prepping your environment as well. This should be like a deep work, for I don't know 2 to 3 h. If it's your 1st time, maybe another 4 h. Have a drink with you. Coffee bathroom is acceptable just like focus, because for a lot of 1st time for travelers who are building their financial model for the 1st time. This is like a ripping. Their you just like this is down and get it done.
Techstars San Francisco: and you can revisit this regularly. You should be revisiting regularly, but getting the 1st step is the hardest, so make sure you have the right fiber for it. And so what I simply do is have a pen and paper or whiteboard
Techstars San Francisco: to scratch. So it's kind of like, have something that's right. On.
Techstars San Francisco: Start with a blank Google sheet or excel. Do not use Troy's stuff because I don't know if she still does a Dollar gift club thing, but it's like A B to C company. It's a construction based.
Techstars San Francisco: But you said yesterday also to like, not use this.
Techstars San Francisco: Yes, because it's like, well, 1st of all, it's already very. See the excel sheet that you have. Yesterday it was already like pretty built out. Everything is already coded and like, if you change the one thing or the assumption, it'll change like 17 sheets all at once, and so to like, retrove it to your business. Gonna be very difficult. And that is just like a different model entirely. So it's really, really hard to use that just have like
Techstars San Francisco: both from scratch.
Techstars San Francisco: And then another thing that we'll continue to tap on is you need to be able to drive your own model. Need to absolutely understand every single like formula in there. You need to understand how any change you make is gonna affect the rest of the model. When you're talking Vcs through this, and when you're modeling things out for your own sort of strategic information.
Techstars San Francisco: That's why it's so important to build a model simple enough that you can really really manage it.
Techstars San Francisco: because because you're gonna have to show it to people. And you're gonna have to use it to to justify data. I don't know what driving a model looks like in the conference that we see meetings. But that's something we'll get into more later.
Techstars San Francisco: Yeah, I think what I have a lot of time with is
Techstars San Francisco: having the ball removed in the time, because we've got so far is mostly like
Techstars San Francisco: very simple like run rate, like clients payments like what we're gonna spend each month and then compare that to
Techstars San Francisco: like what we actually spent that margin with the contract that actually
Techstars San Francisco: within, whenever I try to experiment with a more complex model
Techstars San Francisco: was too complex to track it properly. So I think that's what what I have a hard time doable.
Techstars San Francisco: Yeah, it might be because it's too complex. It should be, I shouldn't say stupid, simple, but it's like it should be simple enough to answer those questions. So, for instance, so let me come to the questions that you should be able to answer based on your model is, how much do we need to raise?
Techstars San Francisco: When do I get right to them.
Techstars San Francisco: Those are basic questions like those 2 things are typically
Techstars San Francisco: the questions that you ask all the time. Cash flow statements is the answer is that for you, but not income statements.
Techstars San Francisco: And so I would. So this is an interesting point. Because if you
Techstars San Francisco: don't have any understanding what, or if you're still not convinced that this is necessary, start with the questions that you want answered.
Techstars San Francisco: So when do I need to raise? How much do we need to raise. When are we gonna run out of money? If you don't raise, how many people do we need to let go? If I don't close my race. Things like that
Techstars San Francisco: like one model that is like prediction and one role. That is what actually happened. And compared to, we have, like a common sense like generally generally effective
Techstars San Francisco: like, how do you think about those things? Yes, thank you. You're setting me up well for the next life.
Techstars San Francisco: so it will be answered in like multiple times from now. But we'll let's talk about kind of the structure now.
Techstars San Francisco: So when it gets started, I recommend just starting with these 5 sheets. So assumptions, traffic details, sales, details, income statement and employees.
Techstars San Francisco: What's traffic details?
Techstars San Francisco: We'll talk about that
Techstars San Francisco: just these 5. You don't have to have more, and the reason is because so it should. It should look like this. So you have one tab for each month. I'm not a big fan of like combining all in one sheet because it gets a little crazy as you get as you introduce more complexity to it. And if you're, it's something in your growth stage.
Techstars San Francisco: This is also to think with your accounting software. So in the last company that I was in future house, it's a gold sage company. We had 20 million dollars. So there's a lot of money.
Techstars San Francisco: and there's a lot of transactions that are happening monthly. And so we had to write a script to make sure that this talks to our quickbooks.
Techstars San Francisco: but it only works. If the formatting of your sheet kind of mirrors, the books
Techstars San Francisco: and mirror split books only means that it has to be in a form, in a format of financial statements, if that makes sense. So, if you have, for instance, your assumptions in the same tab with your monthly income statement. So let's say you have an assumption on the top monthly income statement on the bottom. It will be very, very difficult for you to automate it with. So this is just kind of like forward looking a little bit. You might not need it right now. But
Techstars San Francisco: so a session is necessary, because if you're imagining building like a Bj deck.
Techstars San Francisco: these are your dials and the
Techstars San Francisco: buttons that you're building on your on your machine. You should not
Techstars San Francisco: change any numbers on the other tabs when you want to have a hypothetical. So let's say, Oh, what if our term rate becomes 4%. You're not change on the sheet, change it on the assumption.
Techstars San Francisco: because then you can ask questions with us without necessarily ruining kind of the automation that we have already built in. And so that's why the some tabs would be the 1st one that you
Techstars San Francisco: bye.
Techstars San Francisco: These 3 things traffic details, sales, details and income statement is basically a mathematical representation of your sales funnel. If you're my Kpi calls, we talk about this a little bit right? Like you have top of funnel, and you have also conversion rate for whatever stage you're in. And this is simply a mathematical representation of that funnel.
Techstars San Francisco: And oh, and we'll talk about that a little bit more, and employees only because that's typically your biggest time.
Techstars San Francisco: We're not.
Techstars San Francisco: at least for the foreseeable future. The only other thing that I think is expensive for AI companies.
Techstars San Francisco: Our Api calls something like that. But it's not gonna be as close as voice. So that's a good.
Techstars San Francisco: You'll cover more than 50% of your expenses having your.
Techstars San Francisco: So let's talk about this these 4, for now.
Techstars San Francisco: by writing down your revenue formula, if you have not already.
Techstars San Francisco: So I'm using my last business in senior care to do this. So we get money from doing a technology like a workshop in these retirement communities. So the revenue is pretty simple. Right? It's like, okay, the number of retirement community
Techstars San Francisco: multi is multiplied by how much we're I'm charging.
Techstars San Francisco: But then you have to then go down to the details as to how you're getting the number of the public meetings, because this is a fixed
Techstars San Francisco: amount for most of you. If you have different price prices here, we can talk about that. But assume this is fixed. This is something that you can control, and this is your level.
Techstars San Francisco: and so make sure you have the that funnel for- for- for this.
Techstars San Francisco: And so what I did at the time I did cold call. And I did cold drop in.
Techstars San Francisco: And I do, okay for 10 robins. There's 8 interest you can define. You have to use this terminology. By the way, because I think some people describe opportunities for people who are interested and stuff like that as 8 interest and then 5. So make sure you have this level of granularity in your sales funnel when you write down your revenue formula, so it's not just multiplying the dollar value.
Techstars San Francisco: And then, when you are done with that part. The traffic details. Tab is where your funnels are, gonna say.
Techstars San Francisco: and to answer your question about historical data.
Techstars San Francisco: So this is obviously, I'm not doing this in 2025, but for the purpose of this exercise.
Techstars San Francisco: That's why I had always done cold call for this for last month I did 30 cold calls. I got 15 and 15, which I'm interested that I close to.
Techstars San Francisco: I wrote it down in March.
Techstars San Francisco: Color coded. It doesn't have to be great, it can be whatever color you like.
Techstars San Francisco: and then presented out hourly.
Techstars San Francisco: and then same thing with the call cold dropping, and you have to do that for each of your funnel. If you have social media, if you have
Techstars San Francisco: cool calls. Yeah, that means that every month you update a call.
Techstars San Francisco: Yes, so well. Sorry. Go ahead.
Techstars San Francisco: No, no, you don't. If you change the colors.
Techstars San Francisco: So we change from predicted to what actually happened. It's very compared.
Techstars San Francisco: Yes, so and we'll we'll touch on that.
Techstars San Francisco: Think it's not active.
Techstars San Francisco: Yes. So okay. So let's say you're pulling out large information right now.
Techstars San Francisco: And so the next step that you need to do is to make sure that these are also implemented in your.
Techstars San Francisco: I guess I did write down, ask Tab. So because from basically from
Techstars San Francisco: from this, you can inspire your commercial race. Right?
Techstars San Francisco: Okay. So I got, I'm going back and forth. So I got, I called 30, 15 interested too close.
Techstars San Francisco: So for each step I have a conversion rate. I have to put it in this on tab.
Techstars San Francisco: so that the purpose is, let's say
Techstars San Francisco: we're going to April. This is not yet April, but soon. This is the end of March.
Techstars San Francisco: and I say, you know what I can. Cold call 60 30 was too small.
Techstars San Francisco: If we're following 2 numbers, there are 30 and 4. This
Techstars San Francisco: should be informed by all of the data that's in the assumption. Yeah. Now, I think
Techstars San Francisco: the only thing that is that needs to happen here is that let's say you have these conversion rates.
Techstars San Francisco: And and then it is, let's say applicable or within, you know, degrees of error. That's reasonable for a couple of months. But then let's say it may happen.
Techstars San Francisco: and then the commercial rate is like close to 0.
Techstars San Francisco: Now, what you're going to do is that you're going to come to the assumption tab and then adjust.
Techstars San Francisco: based on reality.
Techstars San Francisco: If it tells you something different, if reality is telling you something different, or if you think that oh, you know what coming May, we're gonna hire an Sdr. And our interest rate is gonna our our conversion rate is gonna increase by a hundred percent. You can also change. Make that reflect here, too.
Techstars San Francisco: And if if you're asking about how to track like the assumptions versus actuals over time, remember Troy, when he sits down remotely, he duplicates the entire model and updates it. So he has, like his new assumptions, and he can go back and look at historical versions and see how he's gotten closer to reality or like, look back and analyze how he was thinking about things at a different time. But you want to make sure that what you're working with most immediately
Techstars San Francisco: is as up to date as possible. So going back and adjusting your assumptions monthly to make sure it's reflecting what's happening in the business. But keep that historical record separately.
Techstars San Francisco: Thanks.
Techstars San Francisco: Yeah. I think he's on. I don't know if I haven't seen Troy's little sheet, but he also has, like a waterfall chart
Techstars San Francisco: that actually this, he just has a separate tab in the sheet where he showed like
Techstars San Francisco: he maps out his projections. Yeah. And then each month, as he makes it through. He inputs the actual numbers. Let's that adjust his projections. And like marks down the actuals in gray. And he's like, okay, this is how my expectations have changed, and he
Techstars San Francisco: Should I try to find it? I don't think he hit on it. Yeah, I don't think he showed yesterday because he had a waterfall chart that I like better than duplicating the financial model because it gets complex. And so what is basically happening is that you. Let's say I'm projecting to close 10 opportunities every month.
Techstars San Francisco: and when January actually comes, you write down what? How many actually get? Let's say I get only 2. And so, February, when February comes, what? How many actually got? 3. So this is so that I can always see you know
Techstars San Francisco: what the reality is. And the top. I personally like this better, just because it's not, it's just
Techstars San Francisco: yeah. And so, oh, yeah, there's a yes.
Techstars San Francisco: So
Techstars San Francisco: what he's doing here is in January. He sits down and like projects out his budget for each month what he assumes it's gonna be.
Techstars San Francisco: And then
Techstars San Francisco: from there he assumed his his budget would be 1 0 5 for February. The actual is 100. So in February he's sitting down, putting the actual in red and then mapping it out again, and then you can see how it's changed over time in March. He's doing it again and sitting down, and you can see like how his projections for August you can see the actual here to all the different assumptions over time. So this is a really good way to map that out. And I'll pull this this model.
Techstars San Francisco: yeah. So this is just an old model. Yeah.
Techstars San Francisco: yeah.
Techstars San Francisco: So he doesn't update the whole model of it. But it's like text briefings, the assumptions. And then for these like projections, he maps out projections have changed for these 3 metrics, and you can see he also color codes it like red. It's worse than expected black. It's better than expected. Then he can sit down and really clearly analyze why, what is the assumption
Techstars San Francisco: very similar to the one. Yeah, it's just
Techstars San Francisco: we address the assumption like that
Techstars San Francisco: every single row based on what you saw.
Techstars San Francisco: No, so- so for- for the waterfall charts, that is, for it has a different function with the assumption tab. So something's just, for they sometimes have. Like like, I said, it's like it's like a dial.
Techstars San Francisco: Yeah. So the use case is that you go to the waterfall to see what is what reality is telling you, so that you have a better clarity as to what's happening. And then you update here, yeah.
Techstars San Francisco: does that make sense? But that would also wouldn't that automatically update everything about
Techstars San Francisco: it will update it. If you make updates here, it'll make the whole cheat sheet. Yes, yeah.
Techstars San Francisco: But the actuals on that waterfall. Those were inputs. So those aren't behind. There's not a formula. Item. Those are the actuals from the statement that he got. Yeah, so these are not.
Techstars San Francisco: These are not coded for the assumptions. No, okay, so let's say, February, what? January that happened. And so I want to update this is his input. Like, logically, after January happened. What do I think is going to happen in February, and that is a fixed input 39, 50. And then this is the actual number. And then every month, you basically update your assumptions of what's going to happen in the future
Techstars San Francisco: based on what you have. I kind of understand her question, why is, why did January go from 39, 50 to 4,300
Techstars San Francisco: like I get? Why, I got that February 43, 25. That makes sense. But why are the growth rate updated
Techstars San Francisco: in the assumption? There's probably a growth rate. Probably. Look, if you go to the assumptions, Tab.
Techstars San Francisco: let's go to March income statement.
Techstars San Francisco: do you know, have our conferencing pay monthly?
Techstars San Francisco: Are you trying to understand why everything on the assumptions tab isn't waterfalled out? Yeah, okay, so it's just too much. It's not a good use of time to map out every single thing. How it's changed over time.
Techstars San Francisco: So if it's actual February, yeah.
Techstars San Francisco: is it not based on the projected outputs of the model based on the assumption? So say I have my March assumptions, and I'm putting them in, and that's waterfalled out to project revenue for the next year.
Techstars San Francisco: I found it quite easy to just like
Techstars San Francisco: I have my revenue model rather than having a multiple system.
Techstars San Francisco: the ones that are assumptions like future ones, that are my assumptions, and whatever month has happened, I go and check in and see what my actions were, and I manually change my previous predictions with the actions. And what I do, I know. If I was under over, least I'm starting to get like
Techstars San Francisco: more data. I can better predict my futures at that point.
Techstars San Francisco: Yeah, that's how I use it, too. I don't code this into my model. But we can.
Techstars San Francisco: Yeah.
Techstars San Francisco: Objects.
Techstars San Francisco: Okay?
Techstars San Francisco: But it's everyone's familiar with this part. Right? It's pretty straightforward. Okay, cool.
Techstars San Francisco: Okay? So we'll talk about this traffic details that answer your question hopefully.
Techstars San Francisco: sales detail is basically us taking the bottom
Techstars San Francisco: part of your sales funnel, the ones that are actually turned to sales. And the reason we separate it out. You don't have to, by the way, is because, especially, you have multiple sources of revenue. It's you know, this way
Techstars San Francisco: or multiple funnel as well, because they don't typically get created equal. And so the sales details present has
Techstars San Francisco: this is where the bottom of your sales funnel is gonna sit.
Techstars San Francisco: And this format typically works. For if you have like, month to month type of relationship with with the senior living that I was selling to, we have monthly contracts. So it's kind of like subscription, right? That's why I put it in like in this format, whenever I have the beginning number new number, and then turn as well, so that I know how many workshop I should host during that month.
Techstars San Francisco: So this is kind of more like a if you have a subscription like this model. This is a good way to plan it out, and then eventually you have your revenue, and then the revenue will then go into your compensations.
Techstars San Francisco: So that's pretty easy. Right?
Techstars San Francisco: Any questions so far cool.
Techstars San Francisco: Okay. Now, because this should be hopefully easy, go into your bank account. And
Techstars San Francisco: but it's saying, but I do highly recommend building your employees Tab.
Techstars San Francisco: because it is the most expensive expenses they're going to have with the next foreseeable future. And so, being diligent and
Techstars San Francisco: making sure you can track how much you're paying your employees.
Techstars San Francisco: This should help you also theoretically make decisions on how much you can negotiate someone's salary.
Techstars San Francisco: have C-cos who
Techstars San Francisco: would literally like they don't have this. They would just go into their Mercury bank accounts and someone ask a number, and they like
Techstars San Francisco: it's portable and just like, give a thumbs up on it.
Techstars San Francisco: That's cool. But the thing is hiring. Voice is not just in salary. Right? There's friends and benefits. There's like lunches, like things like that kind of creep up on you and so make sure you actually put it out. So you don't just see. Okay, they're asking for a hundred K, or therefore that cost. That's gonna cost me 100. It's not
Techstars San Francisco: okay. So common things that come up.
Techstars San Francisco: and I shouldn't say but this is more like a not best practices. The 1st one is no control data. And so if your business has not changed. If you haven't changed your business model, you should always have the searchable data.
Techstars San Francisco: especially when you have a conversation with investors.
Techstars San Francisco: They don't always give a shit as to what your 5 year outlook is going to look like. They know you're kind of shooting out their assets right? Especially at this stage things can change. Make sure you have historical data, because that is also how they can tell whether you make good financial decisions in your
Techstars San Francisco: in your startup they want to invest in you. The questions they're gonna ask, they often ask is, Oh, how are you? How are you actually going to use this money.
Techstars San Francisco: And so the historical data is more of a telling of your ability to banishani.
Techstars San Francisco: And
Techstars San Francisco: so I don't have to but make sure that it is there. If it's not there, have a good explanation as to why? Because they will ask you during due diligence. If you're part of fundraising, they will ask for this, anyway, they will probably ask for your actual income statements. And so you're not at the end of the day. You're not hiding anything by not having it there
Techstars San Francisco: also. Make sure it's dated. Also, I've seen like month, one month, 2. What the heck is that it could be like last year. Right? So make sure you actually have meetings.
Techstars San Francisco: Second, one is growth rate.
Techstars San Francisco: This is this happens so much. I don't really understand it. It's like, Oh, we're gonna grow 10% month to month, and they- they use it in the assumption tab. And it's a lot out into unforeseen future.
Techstars San Francisco: Grossing should be calculated. It shouldn't be an arbitrary number, because someone's gonna ask you, okay, you're going to grow 20% month to month. How are you going to get that?
Techstars San Francisco: Sure you could probably like throw some stuff and like, Oh, we're gonna do marketing. We're gonna do blah blah! The best thing is to be able to tell the investors what exactly you're going to do.
Techstars San Francisco: Oh, we're gonna we're going to. Well, double number of cold calls that we're gonna do this month.
Techstars San Francisco: And it should be based on your model, it should be calculated. That's a formula. It's just like the next number, minus the previous number divided by the previous number.
Techstars San Francisco: That's that's it. It should be calculated it should not be something that you sign
Techstars San Francisco: and use this around the data. If you don't know that, then your models should inform you to that. I think what people forget sometimes is that because assumptions have stays the same.
Techstars San Francisco: and it seems like, let me go back to my traffic data here.
Techstars San Francisco: Alright, okay. So
Techstars San Francisco: if I apply this into eternity, the 1634 using my assumptions, it's gonna have 1634,
Techstars San Francisco: because each month I'm gonna get just 4 new number of questions.
Techstars San Francisco: What people don't often realize is that if you get 4 new each month and not nothing turns at all like no, your time that at this point you'll you'll get 16, I think, what I'm getting
Techstars San Francisco: 9,
Techstars San Francisco: and so at this one I'll get 25 at this one I get 34. This one I get, for you know, the total number compounds. That's what people don't often realize. And that is where you should get your growth rate. It shouldn't be a number that you sign
Techstars San Francisco: make sense.
Techstars San Francisco: Okay? And lastly, this should be.
Techstars San Francisco: oh, okay, common questions.
Techstars San Francisco: How do you make assumptions with little date? Very little data
Techstars San Francisco: very common. You don't know what you're doing yet. And so the answer is that if you don't have data, use industry standards.
Techstars San Francisco: there is always especially. This is especially true, for
Techstars San Francisco: Newsletter opens and clicks numbers. You can always find industry standard for it. And so it's really easy to defend that you're going to be at Industry standard
Techstars San Francisco: in most cases for startups. You will actually see an uptick when you 1st start doing things, you can see they're getting excited about it. So you can say, also, you can make an argument that we're gonna kill this, you know, we're gonna double the industry standard. It's fine.
Techstars San Francisco: But make sure you have a piece of support
Techstars San Francisco: and start with things that you said is, please.
Techstars San Francisco: how do you find something like that? Is that something that like, are you looking at your company in your industry? Or how does that? Yeah.
Techstars San Francisco: yeah. Great question. So
Techstars San Francisco: you don't know? Like the answer, it depends. And so it depends on what your what number we're talking about. So, for for instance, the variability between verticals
Techstars San Francisco: can be meaningful, because I think open weights for a newsletter that's in startup versus in healthcare can- can be like twice big, and so that I would say, look at
Techstars San Francisco: the industry specifics. And there's, you know, specific website for it. But if you're creating something that's very, very new, then I would say, look into that. If it's available.
Techstars San Francisco: If not, then go back to kind of the status quo things.
Techstars San Francisco: And are there like sources to get like, for example, like.
Techstars San Francisco: you know, people have like, Oh, for example, we for sales like justify a little bit with that like, are there like.
Techstars San Francisco: like, I guess the question is like, Where do you? Where's a good? Are there good sources that you just find the right source?
Techstars San Francisco: Yeah, I don't have a good answer to that. My mind goes immediately. Go to like. For instance, let me ask whether or not we should look at competitors. That's typically useful for evaluation, right? So, but I can't really think of like a 1
Techstars San Francisco: source of truth. If that's what you're asking
Techstars San Francisco: for, stuff like SEO, we'll have a speaker come in, and he's got this this tool that lets you
Techstars San Francisco: like scrape data from your competitors.
Techstars San Francisco: What companies are ranking for, what keywords, how many business they're getting, and it's pretty cheap.
Techstars San Francisco: And then last, one is, when do you rebuild versus modify existing?
Techstars San Francisco: There's no right answer to this. I personally rebuilt one of this model changes because we made the change. We kind of made a lot of changes if you don't have to, if you can somehow kind of rearrange or treat so it makes sense.
Techstars San Francisco: You don't. You don't have to. The last thing that you want is to overwhelm your investments. So you have like so much because we experiment a lot of things right? Not all of your experiments need to go through your financial models. You probably need to like if you spend money on it. Great. Have a lot of it, for under your cost in income statement. But you don't have to explain. Oh, this is what happens to the experiment. This is costing us as much, especially if you guys would not want to make any meaningful changes to your business, so rebuild when it changes.
Techstars San Francisco: Oh, there you go! Oh, I'm early, cool questions am sorry.
Techstars San Francisco: What a lot of your business model, or at least their revenue models are starting.
Techstars San Francisco: which are often disconnected from
Techstars San Francisco: the underlying cost to company, because they're a measure of what the result was, whereas a company might be spending a particular amount per outcome.
Techstars San Francisco: How do you kind of like? And like we're not like? You're not passing that direct charge down to unit economics are a little bit about, hey? What do we think is unit? How many units do we think it takes for outcome
Techstars San Francisco: is, when does that stuff like right now, when you're when are investors like this won't stand out.
Techstars San Francisco: It was, you know, a larger
Techstars San Francisco: yeah, have followed them right? Like, how do you? How do you effectively scale that up?
Techstars San Francisco: Can you give a more specific example. Yeah, okay, so
Techstars San Francisco: we our cost technically from our cost.
Techstars San Francisco: the machine doesn't care whether the user got the up like the basically, whether they got the data set or not. The auto change, how much compute
Techstars San Francisco: right? So we could take 500 compute cycles or 50 compute cycles completely disconnected from
Techstars San Francisco: somewhat descended from what the outcome for the user is because it could be like basically one web page that has everything on it. Or
Techstars San Francisco: you have to go through a hundred web pages before we find that one web page right? And so
Techstars San Francisco: there is like this. This cost us a lot of money. But it's 0 for the user. And so it's an outcome based scenario that we
Techstars San Francisco: we want to move forwards because we normally get
Techstars San Francisco: like what they don't really get with per unit cost. Don't care about our per unit cost, but we don't really have enough
Techstars San Francisco: data yet to know what those, what the unit economics will translate to the outcome. Basically. So like, how do you ensure
Techstars San Francisco: investors, or how do you not even investors? How do you like you start to be like, hey, can we even consider doing outcome based pricing? Or should we just stick to pricing, which is more of a steer to the end user. But yeah.
Techstars San Francisco: so
Techstars San Francisco: so first, st take average, how much you have to spend, because it sounds like it's just not a variable. It's not a variable cost. It's just like a cost for you to run the company.
Techstars San Francisco: To me it sounds as much. It sounds very similar to the subscription cost that you are like 2 50 a month.
Techstars San Francisco: because sounds like it's the same
Techstars San Francisco: it has to correlate with something I don't know what it correlates to to exactly. And then that is connected directly to their outcome.
Techstars San Francisco: But it's not always uniform by by analogy. If you're prospecting for oil, you don't know where it is, you've got to dig a lot of holes to find it. That's the cost similar for us. But the infrastructure for the actual oil drill is we're accounting for that. That's separate
Techstars San Francisco: when platform based pricing
Techstars San Francisco: is worth it. And what at what point does it stop like? Let's say a hundred query. To get an outcome, then
Techstars San Francisco: how to be able to make that prediction of like, all right, we have enough data. But, like, the question is, when do? When can we shift that to the user and show them that like, when we think that the actual prices are.
Techstars San Francisco: is that like right now, we charge them per unit, and they don't really know what that means, and we want to charge them per outcome.
Techstars San Francisco: which could be a variable number of units, and it gets a little bit more complicated. And then we it's like an Uber ride in the past, right? It was like they just ate the cost of the entire model below fixed price. So like, I guess my question is.
Techstars San Francisco: is it too early to even do it today like.
Techstars San Francisco: or is it actually worth it? Because it'll make it easier for the customer to understand what they're paying for. Yeah. So I would say, not only more is that it might be a little too early. What I would do in the position is 2 things. First, st I will look at average. How much are we actually spending on this month on the variability, not on the infrastructure. And then, second, ask yourself
Techstars San Francisco: how much you want to spend on this. So as opposed to asking, How much do you need to spend. Let's say it's like 5,000 more. You budget for it. Let's say, okay, every month we are end up spending 10 KA month to support this
Techstars San Francisco: model it out not more, no less. Maybe it's impossible for your customers to like use. More than that, I'm just saying. But like budget for it.
Techstars San Francisco: And then suddenly, this should have nothing to do with. When you model your revenue. When you model your revenue.
Techstars San Francisco: there's also a possibility right for you to charge for, let's say, for results. That would be so. Think right now.
Techstars San Francisco: like average cost per outcome could also be used almost as metric to see how the product is being optimized for certain use case. And you can see how that cost per outcome changes over time and price based on that
Techstars San Francisco: cool another question on this.
Techstars San Francisco: Okay? So before I close up, I think that the CEO, even if you get to the point where
Techstars San Francisco: it's still very, very important for you to do it. I was a sample once. It did not go well, because not understand how to use the model and then basically offload Responsi.
Techstars San Francisco: Make sure that the money there's money to the bank.
Techstars San Francisco: See how much jobs to answer questions for you like.
Techstars San Francisco: how much do we need to make sense. And why do we need to waste?
Techstars San Francisco: But it's still obviously a responsibility.
Techstars San Francisco: I wasn't it good?
Techstars San Francisco: Because so let me let me think of an example that I can share with you.
Techstars San Francisco: no, I it's important.
Techstars San Francisco: Guess where the data room lives. That's where the data room lives.
Techstars San Francisco: I don't know.
Techstars San Francisco: All right. Okay, so the theater room.
Techstars San Francisco: 10 min. Okay, next week.
Techstars San Francisco: All right. So is essentially your business on paper. Financial model is a huge part of that. But there are some other metrics and key things we want you to deeply understand and have prepared for when you choose to raise. It's also an aspect of just good business hygiene to deeply understand what's happening in all aspects of your business.
Techstars San Francisco: Know your numbers like that? It's just a marker of a good founder. So this is part of our team sort of personal Apis. This isn't a tech stars thing. This isn't us thing that we really really care that you have a foundational understanding of what a data room needs to look like. And you have a 1st draft, and you understand how to build one.
Techstars San Francisco: So this sort of curriculum that we've got going has been developed in collaboration with Merrick. So lilliana Neil and built this curriculum. We've iterated it over time. And our goal is that all of you hit Demo Day with a foundation data ring. So we've broken it down into weekly little pieces and assignments, and and the goal here is that when you choose to raise
Techstars San Francisco: absolutely understand all aspects of your business and then you're able to at a glance. Someone says.
Techstars San Francisco: Can I see your data room? You have it ready? That like it, it just lands really, really well, when you have all those materials on deck ready to go and are are showing up prepared. It's back to that idea of 1st impressions having a really great handle on every aspect of your business and being able to ping out a data room link like that. Just is a great, great 1st impression for
Techstars San Francisco: for when you do choose to raise it's also about the habits of building. So not just for raising, but again, that that ongoing understanding of your business.
Techstars San Francisco: So where this is gonna live
Techstars San Francisco: at the start of every Kpi call. We're gonna go through these together, starting Monday. But
Techstars San Francisco: here in your oh, harvest, we've got 2 here in your company projects
Techstars San Francisco: message board. Peter will be shipping these out. 1st off we have the intro to data rooms. This is a high level overview overview just some stuff to read over by Monday. To better understand. Why we're doing this. Why, this is important. And then you can see an overview of the dates and deliverables that we're looking for. All right.
Techstars San Francisco: Also do Monday
Techstars San Francisco: financial modeling. So we've we've put all this material on the spot for a reason. This is gonna look high, lift. It's not going to be, since you've already prepped financial models for Troy's workshop. And we have Verona as a resource to help guide you through this. It should just be a rework based on what you've already submitted. If you didn't submit anything for Troy have a fun weekend.
Techstars San Francisco: We we do want to see a stab at a financial model for Monday like with all things. If timing is an issue. Communicate, and we'll be great.
Techstars San Francisco: But
Techstars San Francisco: financials to date and financial model are the key deliverables. We want to see. The submission link is at the bottom of every assignment. But if you are having trouble finding it, Hq. Docs of files, data, deliverables, and then it's marked out by week. Another thing we've got here is the dashboard.
Techstars San Francisco: So because this is so important to our team that you all understand what we need here. We're gonna we? We do this, this little dashboard? Create some peer pressures visibility across the board. So you all understand? How you're doing here. And it's literally, if all of you submit financial models that are that look good, it'll all go green
Techstars San Francisco: if something was turned in. But we're not matched up. We're not aligned on understanding something pretty fundamental needs to shift or if you miss the deadline but communicated about it, then you'll be in yellow if something's missing without us having a good reason why, it'll be in red, and then just communicate with us as you submit things and we'll, we'll get this whole wall green
Techstars San Francisco: green blocks under under the financials.
Techstars San Francisco: So this should be visible to everyone. Everyone understand where to find everything, understand the cadence. Monday to Monday. It'll be due same time like alongside your Kpis. 1130 on Mondays, and then at the Kickoff with Kpi Falls, when we'll introduce the next assignment. Beyond that, we've never had an issue with this in the past. But so
Techstars San Francisco: you'll be submitting details on on your business into these folders that the rest of your class can see, so you can give back to each other and help each other out. But this is this stays within the class. Nothing. From this like data and submission folder makes it out. We have some special accommodations that we use for the legal Doc. Submission week to make sure everything stays private and secure. But
Techstars San Francisco: nothing makes it outside of the data room without express permission. And we're all gonna gonna keep our company docs within the class.
Techstars San Francisco: beautiful in terms of format for this endgame data room that you're gonna have a drive link works great, for now, when you're actively raising, you might want to put it in a docsense. Make it look a little bit more official password, lock it, do the email secure thing. But for now, just to drive something easy, and easily sendable. Don't need to over engineer this right now. A lot of this is going to be really, really simple.
Techstars San Francisco: Beyond that our goal here is that you're able to sit down with each of these documents on like a sort of monthly quarterly basis, depending on what it is. And have this almost like meditative exercise to understand, to make sure that deeply understand what's going on, that your business is reflected accurately within these materials, and you're able to communicate well.
Techstars San Francisco: so
Techstars San Francisco: little like 5 check on this front in terms of like, how we're showing up, how we're keeping track of doing this about business, this one keeping like, we talked about. Week one.
Techstars San Francisco: he's yeah. Okay. That's fine.
Techstars San Francisco: awesome, awesome. Yeah. Cause that that's gonna show up later down the line. Like the FAQ page. We're gonna ask for those questions. So like, maybe, as you're doing your mental madness, reflection, what are the key questions I'm being asked? Do I have good answers for them?
Techstars San Francisco: So you can see a high level overview of all of these deliverables that we're gonna ask for. Just keep them on your radar
Techstars San Francisco: if you want early access any of the assignments. Let me know if there's something you're like really ready to deep dive into. But
Techstars San Francisco: yeah, that's later. It's the real clean.
Techstars San Francisco: That was 8 min beautiful. Bye, guys.
Techstars San Francisco: thank you for having me.